now the US President Joe Biden says an
agreement for a temporary ceasefire in
Gaza could be reached by Monday and as
part of it he says Israel is ready to
Hal military activities during the
Muslim holy month of Ramadan which also
begins in the coming days Al jazer
sources say that the initial framework
for the deal includes the exchange of
400 Palestinian prisoners for 40 Israeli
captives held in Gaza Israel has also
reportedly agreed to the gradual return
of displaced Palestinians to Northern
Gaza sources say under the deal Israel
would reposition its forces away from
crowded areas and halt aerial
surveillance for 8 hours a
day now Biden made his remarks during
appearance on a late night Chat
Show and we've got a at least a
principal agreement there will be a
ceasefire while that takes place
ramadan's coming up and there's been an
agreement by the Israelis that they
would not engage in activities during
Ramadan as well in order to give us time
to to get all the hostages out that
gives us time to begin to move in
directions that a lot of Arab countries
are prepared to move in and in the
meantime there are too many innocent
people that are being killed and uh
Israel has slowed down the attacks in
Rafa they have to and they've made a
commitment to me they're going to see to
it that there's ability to evacuate
significant portions of Rafa before they
go and take out the remainder of Hamas
but it but it's a process Israel has had
the overwhelming support of the vast
majority of Nations if it keeps this up
without this incredibly conservative
government they have and Ben gavier and
others most I've known every major
foreign policy leader in Israel since
goldem
mayir they're going to lose support from
around the world and that is not in
Israel's
interest Mike kind joins us now from
Washington DC it does beg the question
Mike what does Biden know that uh we
don't seems to be sort of order of the
day when it comes to any potential
ceasefire indeed yes but there in that
statement that Biden made on The Late
Night show he's talking about an
immediate agreement a midterm agreement
and a long-term agreement he got a lot
in that uh particular appearance on the
Nate night show he's talking about the
indication of a ceasefire beginning
incoming days saying that this has been
agreed to in principle of viously
President Biden must be aware of
something that the wider public is not
the discussions that have been going on
between all the interested parties but
then he continues and says that Israel
has committed as well to end activities
during the holy month of Ramadan now
that begins around March the 10th uh
Biden saying that this would give people
time to get the captives being held in
Gaza out of that country and then he
goes even further and he says this
interm and extended SE fire would then
give us time to alter the dynamic and
what he's hinting at here is a wider
Arab recognition of Israel in exchange
for a ceasefire or long-term agreement
uh between Israel and Palestinians so
there's a lot packed into these comments
that he made in the late night show and
clearly he's got access to information
as president of the United States at the
general public doesn't uh but in brief
it would appear well President Biden
says that there is an agre agement in
principle to get a ceasefire in place in
coming days Mike thanks very much for
the update Mike Hannah there for us in
Washington DC well vill marks joins us
now from occupied East Jerusalem and one
wonders what Israel is is either
thinking or saying about Biden's
comments
villm well the Israeli government is not
saying a huge amount we've reached out
to prime minister Benjamin netanyahu's
office they have said they are not
offering comment on the remarks from the
US leader we've also reached out to the
Ministry of Foreign Affairs here that's
often involved in these kinds of
negotiations and obviously often
responds to what foreign governments say
about Israel they too have not responded
to our requests in terms of the other
parties to this negotiation of course
we've been hearing from the qari foreign
Ministry over the last couple of hours
Hamas we've been trying to reach out to
some of the people close to that
organization we've not been hearing back
from them yet they have spoken to
reiters over the course of the the last
few hours in which they've said and this
is according to the Reuters news agency
these are unnamed officials inside Hamas
saying that Biden's remarks suggesting
the agreement had already been reached
in principle were premature there were
still big gaps that needed to be bridged
clearly there is a concern that the
details of this deal that have been put
out there into the public are not
entirely agreed on between the two sides
that maybe quite obvious thing to say
the central contradiction of course is
going to be around resolving the
long-term plan for the Israeli military
inside Gaza the Israelis have said
repeatedly as has prime minister
Netanyahu on television that he will
push ahead with operations in Rafa
whether there is a ceasefire or not
Hamas has publicly talked about the need
for a permanent ceasefire trying to
bridge that Gap seems to be one of the
challenges and of course villm just to
clarify for our viewers where does
Israel stand on any conversation that
involves the word pause or
ceasefire it's a really good question
and I think a lot of governments have
tied themselves in kns trying to figure
out the differential here Netanyahu
let's just take him at his word as the
Prime Minister he has said that whatever
happens the Israelis will push on
through speaking to CBS Face the Nation
over the course of the weekend whether
there is a ceasefire or not over the
last over the the next I should say 6
weeks or so let's just say there's going
to be uh 40 days of ceasefire in return
for 40 Israeli captives being released
during those 40 days there would be a
cessation of hostilities there would be
a reduction in let's say aerial
reconnaissance but after that
netanyahu's made it very clear that he
wants to see what he's called absolute
Victory so the idea that this is going
to become a permanent ceasefire doesn't
seem to be something that Israeli
officials publicly are acknowledging as
a possibility vill marks forest and
occupied East Jerusalem thank you